docs: refresh agents documentation (#4491)
electric-sql/electric: website/docs/agents/usage/event-sources.md

---
title: Event sources
titleTemplate: "... - Electric Agents"
description: >-
  Let agents discover and subscribe to external webhook-backed event feeds that wake entities with matching event data.
outline: [2, 3]
---

> # Event sources

Reviewer: hmm this name is very generic — it should just be webhook sources. Anything an agent can observe (all "subscribe" should be "observe") is an "event source". This probably needs cleaned up in code too.

Event sources let agents subscribe to external feeds such as GitHub, Stripe, email, CI, or other webhook integrations. A subscription persists on the entity manifest and wakes the entity when matching external events arrive.

Built-in Horton runtimes expose event-source tools through `ctx.electricTools` by default.

## Contracts

An event source contract describes what an agent can subscribe to:

```ts
type EventSourceContract = {
  sourceKey: string
  sourceType: "webhook"
  endpointKey: string
  status: "active" | "disabled" | "revoked"
  label: string
  description?: string
  agentVisible: boolean
  buckets: EventSourceBucket[]
  revision: number
}
```

Buckets describe path templates and parameters:

```ts
type EventSourceBucket = {
  key: string
  label: string
  pathTemplate: string
  paramsSchema: Record<string, unknown>
  filters?: EventSourceFilter[]
}
```

> Agents should call `list_event_sources` first and use the advertised `sourceKey`, `bucketKey`, `paramsSchema`, and optional `filterKey`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agents should call `list_webhook_sources` first and use the advertised `webhookKey`, `bucketKey`, `paramsSchema`, and optional `filterKey`.
```
